Hello welcome back to that bass course in our program.
In today's Tauriel we're talking about handling and date times and are now of course our focus for this
section lists.
However before we can proceed we do need to do some more to our preparation because our data is not
in exactly the ideal format for us to work with.
And what I'm talking about here is this time stamp call.
So let's have a look at it carefully for a few seconds.
What can you see from this column.
What kind of data are we talking about here.
Is this first of September 2016 or is this 9th of January 2016.
So basically I'm asking is this European format or is this American format in European format.
This is first of September in American format.
This is 9th of January.
So which one is it.
Well to answer that question we can quickly look at the bottom rows of the start set and you'll see
that here indeed the first column doesn't present the day because it goes all the way up to 30.
So basically this is the European format and we're talking about the month of September.
But let's imagine a scenario where we didn't have this information where we only had the first 12 days
of the month.
In that case we would be very confused we wouldn't know if we're dealing with European or American American
format what month we're dealing with.
And unless we had some prior knowledge or knowledge actual knowledge about raw data said we wouldn't
be able to tell.
And that is the ambiguity that is conveyed or inherent in arbitrary formats of data are presenting data
like we see here.
So that is why there is a universal type of format.
And in our it is called POSIX c t.
So I know it's a quite a convoluted name but where does it come from and what does it mean.
Well first let's look at the Help for Pasic CTE and what it is.
So here we've got day time classes when you run the slide you get data from Klaas's.
Let's zoom in over here.
And what it says here is that description of the Klaas's products LTE.
So we've got POSIX local time and Pasok CTE which is calendar time and it's got some description here
but you can really go into a lot of detail trying to read through all of this.
I'll just give you a quick overview of what SETI stands for and basically how it originated.
So let's go to a browser and it's going to be quite interesting.
This is from Wikipedia.
Politics is the portable operating system interface.
It is a family of standards specified by the I.e. e computer society for maintaining compatibility between
operating systems.
So now we will read through all of this.
Basically what POSIX means is like it's a standard for many things so not just for dates but so that
when you move from one machine to another machine you're different machines will still understand the
code because that is important right.
We often have programs that work across different interfaces or different machines.
So that's why the IEEE and you can read more about them here came up with this POSIX family of standards
.
And one of them is a standard for time.
And basically what POSIX CTA does is it's a number.
Or is it measures time it stores time as the number of seconds that passed from the start of the year
1970.
So basically it's just an integer.
This was this data type is just an integer which is exactly the number of seconds that passed from the
start of the year of 1970 up until today according to the UTC timezone and that's pretty much it.
It is presented differently so it's shown on the screen differently you'll see just now it's not shown
as just a huge number of seconds it's shown in a nice friendly format but that's how it's stored.
And that's basically the essence of pausa city.
So what we're going to do now is we're going to convert our data into pause ex-city from this arbitrary
time format.
So let's go ahead and do that.
How is this done.
Well first thing I want to do is we want to type in as POSIX CTO.
So just like we do have as character or as numeric and so on.
So now we want to.
This is our function for converting something.
What do we want to commit while we want to convert the still dollar sign.
Timestep right.
So this is our time Datto we want to convert it into park city and now we need to pass on the format
so we can't just randomly convert it right away because even the computer can tell right of by itself
what type of dates we're dealing with here where is the month day year.
Our because for I could be completely arbitrary there could be two spaces here that could be sort of
a call and there could be a dot here that could be seconds and so on.
So we have to help the computer a little bit to understand what we're dealing with.
So again say format equals and let's have a look at our data here.
So we have day.
Right.
So for that we're going to say percentage d like we'll do this one for this type of date format and
then any other date format you come across in your domiciles career you'll be able to figure it out
it's pretty straightforward from what you'll see just now.
So then we want to put the slash because that's how separate or we can see a SlideShare right there
we want to put in the month right.
So percentage M and make sure it's lowercase M then we want to put another slash and then we've got
a year but the year is not just two digits it's four digits.
That's going to the same percentage and we're going to say capital Y because it's four digits.
And then we put a space which represents this base and then we're going to say percentage.
We've got our here so we're going to say age and then we're going to say coal on percentage am I know
it can be a bit confusing whether to put capitals or lower case and so on.
So if you ever run into a bit of difficulties you can always just look it up and try to understand from
a few examples that you'll be able to find here and there on the Internet what exactly to specify like
they've got some examples here as well.
So it's it's never that complicated to figure out.
OK so we're going to run this line and that will give us a vector right.
So if you made a mistake like if I say if I put a lowercase y here you would get an ace.
So it wouldn't make a mistake if you had if you did the check.
So hard to make a mistake basically.
So if you're on that you'll see that the time has been converted AEST stands for Australian Eastern
Standard Time.
That's the time zone I'm in.
I'm sitting here in Brisbane while recording this video.
And so now we're just going to put this into a new column in our data set.
POSIX time we will call it.
All right.
So that's our converted date and or date time to be completely precise.
And now we're going to put it into our data set into a doorframe.
There we go.
And so now if I look at you till let's say look at the top couple of Varos.
Not until you tell.
There we go.
So what we can see here is that we've got our old time stamp and we've got our new POSIX time stamp
.
And let's just take a random one here you can see 20:16 0 9 0 1 0 8 0 0 or so and this one thing is
that it is stored as Unix time.
So basically all POSIX time the number of seconds that passed from 1970 up until this point in time
.
But also you can see that it is represented in a very friendly user friendly format.
So from here you can always tell that when dates are present like that you can always tell it to say
a year this month and this is the day.
And then of course our minutes seconds so there's no confusion whatsoever.
It's very easy to read.
So there we go we've converted our time.
And now if we look at summary for you till what we'll see is that even though this time was recognized
as a factor and you can see it's actually counting the number of records.
POSIX time is recognized as time.
So it's telling you the minimum the maximum median and so on.
So that pretty much all we wanted to do.
But finally I wanted to give you an extra tip.
So he's going to be a tip how to rearrange columns in a door frame.
Let's have a look at that.
This is handy so we want to obviously we want to get rid of this column right so let's get rid of it
first.
Util and we want to say time stamp because we don't need it anymore why would we need to tone stamps
just know that.
So now if we look at this line you'll see that we've got Basok stamp stamp on the rights not really
convenient.
Let's put it on the left where the old time stamp used to be how do we do that.
Well we'll say you still and will override it with a rearranged utile So all of the rows comma and then
four columns will just say pass on a vector of 4 1 to 3 so we're saying First take a fourth column this
one and then one two three.
So if you run that and now we look at the top couple of rows you'll see that another pause timestamp
is on the left.
So there we go.
We not only learned about PASOK city today and how to convert our time which I hope was pretty straightforward
you just have to help the computer a little bit with the format that your time is in and then use that
as puzzle city function.
And we also learned how to rearrange columns in a doorframe just so that it's easier or more convenient
to work with.
All right so that's all for our dollar pression.
We are ready to proceed to lists.
I look forward to seeing you on the next tutorial.
And until then happy coding